Hi, I’m Matt from eSpares.
Cooking with a dirty oven doesn’t just stink
out your kitchen, but it can also sour the
food that your cooking as well. I’m going
to show you how to give your oven a really
deep clean, the sort of thing you should probably
about once a year.
You’re going to need some rubber gloves,
some bin liners, lots of kitchen towel and
some ordinary kitchen spray, a bowl and a
scourer. you might well need a hob scraper
and a screwdriver, and then a choice of oven
cleaners. So for the non-caustic method, you
mix yourself a thick paste of soda crystals
with water, smear it all over the inside of
the oven, leave it overnight, and then brace
yourself for some serious scrubbing. Or you
could use a non-toxic cleaner, like this Ovenrens
cleaner from Electrolux. However, I’m going
to go for the full-on chemical assault from
Mr. Muscle. That means I need to make sure
that the kitchen is well ventilated, so let’s
open the windows.
If yours is an electric oven like this one,
do make sure that you’re switched off at
the mains. Now, there are three main areas
that I’m going to be concentrating on: the
door, the shelves and shelf supports, and
the main cavity of the oven. If yours is a
self-cleaning oven, you’ll only really need
to do the door, and the shelf and shelf supports.
You’ll need to refer to your instruction
manual on how the cleaning part works.
So let’s start by removing the door itself.
On this one, I just need to flick this catch
on either hinge and then the door should just
lift straight out. So then I’ll just remove
the shelves and shelf supports. So I’m going
to put the shelves and shelves’ supports
in a bin liner, and then take my oven spray
and give it all a really good spray. So that’s
really nicely covered in the spray. I’m
just going to loosely tie that bag up and
then go and put that outside and let it do
its work.
So, now let’s spray the main cavity of the
oven. Do avoid spraying into the fan or on
the elements or around the pilot light if
it’s a gas oven. So once the oven cleaner
is getting to work, let’s get started on
the door. Oven doors can be made up to four
pieces of glass thick, like this one, and
as well as all the gunge and grime you can
see on the inner glass here, the grease can
accumulate between the layers of glass, so
we’re going to take it apart completely
so we can give it a really good clean. This
one just has a couple of screws, one on either
side. Now on this door, the hinges just slide
out of the bottom there. But all oven doors
are a little bit different in how they’re
put together, but it’s not too difficult
to work out how to do that. And then on this
one I can just slide these end pieces off
and then just separate out the pieces of glass.
So once you’ve separated out the parts of
your door, just give it as good spray with
an ordinary kitchen spray and then get in
there and give it a good clean. For this innermost
piece of glass with the heaviest stain on,
I’m going to give it a good spray with my
ordinary kitchen spray and then use this glass
scraper and that will soon fetch that off.
Ok, so that’s the last piece of glass in
place and I just need to put the door back
together. So let’s get the shelves and supports
out of the back one at a time, and just get
them in some warm soapy water with a scourer.
Yeah, and that’s coming off nice and easy.
Ok, lets crack on and clean the cavity of
the oven. You’ll see I’ve got my scourer
and my bowl of water ready, and I’ve also
got a bin-bag at hand because we’re going
to start by getting a load of paper towel
and giving it a good wipe, get all that thick
gunge out of there. So that the thickest of
it out and so I’ll go with a scouter now
and really have a go at those burnt out stains.
So let’s give it a last dry around with
the kitchen towel. So I’m going to give
the fascia and the knobs a clean. If any of
the knobs are particularly messy then you
can just replace those, they’ll be available
on the eSpares website. And once I’ve done
this, I can put everything back together again.
There we go, that’s one very clean oven.
Now all that’s left for me to do is put
the power back on, put it on a high heat for
about twenty minutes and that’ll burn off
any access cleaner which is still left in
there. A little tip for you, why not get yourself
a inexpensive extendable oven tray, put some
tin foil on it and that’ll catch most of
the food that drops down there and make cleaning
easier next time.
That, along with spare parts and accessories
for all makes and model of oven, are available
on the eSpares website. Thanks for watching.